# The Web In Depth

- Learn how the web works from a security point of view.

> Any request made to a server has the following structure:
```
	VERB 	/resource/locator 	HTTP/1.1
	Header1: Value1
	Header2: Value2
	…
	<Body of Request>
```
> **Headers** are separated from the body by a series of two **CRLF**(*Carriage Return LineFeed*) sequences. In English, two newline characters.

## Request Headers
- Contain the following, among others:
**Host**
: Indicates desired host handling the request.
**Accept**
: Indicates the MiMe types accepted by the client.
**Cookie**
: Passes cookie data to the server.
**Referer**
: Page leading to this request. Not sent in HTTPS
**Authorisation**
: used mainly for *basic Auth pages*. Takes the form "Basic <base 64'd username: password>

> **MIME Type** - A label used to identify a type of data. A media type is a two-part identifier for file formats and format contents transmitted on the internet.

## Cookies
- **Key-Value** pairs of data sent from the server and reside on the client for a fixed period of time.
- Each cookie has a domain pattern that it applies to and they're passed with each request the client makes to the matching hosts.
 
### Cookie Security
1. Cookies set for parent domain can be read by subdomains.
2. A subdomain can set cookies for its sudomains and parent, but not for sibling domains.
3. 2 cookie flags, set in the **Set-Cookie Header** are used to indicate how to handle them:
    - **Secure** - cookie will only be accessible to HTTPS pages.
    - **HTTPOnly** - Cookie can't be read by JS.

## HTML 
- HTML is parsed largely by browsers but also by Web-application firewalls and other filters.
- Wherever there's a discrepancy in how the two parse things, that's highly likely to be a vuln.

## Content Sniffing
- When browsers aren't provided with full information,they try and infer it.
    1. MIME-Type sniffing.
    2. Encodin Sniffing.
> **UTF-7** & **UTF-32** can go through most filters as they look for UTF-8.

## SAME-ORIGIN POLICY
- SOP describes how the browser restricts a number of security critical features.
    1. What domains can be contacted through XMLHttpRequest AKA Ajax Requests.
    2. Access to the DOM across separate frames/windows.

## CROSS-SITE REQUEST FORGERY
**CSRF**
: When an attacker tricks a victim to go to a page controlled by them, which then submits data to the target site as the victim.
- *Referer headers* are unreliable at best.
- Mitigated by usin **CSRF Tokens**-Random tokens tied to a user's session, which are embedded in each generated form.
- Applications must not be changing data state via *GET* requests. Those shousd be solely reserved for Fetching Data.